✅ Day 18 – Helm Lifecycle Hooks
Hooks are special lifecycle events (e.g., pre-install, post-install) defined in your templates.

You can use them to:

Run DB migrations before deployment

Cleanup after uninstall

Defined using annotations like:

annotations:
  "helm.sh/hook": pre-install

✅ Day 19 – Helm Upgrade and Rollback
helm upgrade myapp . — updates your release with new values/templates.

helm rollback myapp 1 — rolls back to revision 1.

Use helm history myapp to see all revisions.

You can force upgrade with --force or keep old values with --reuse-values.

✅ Day 20 – Helm Testing Framework
Helm lets you define tests as Kubernetes jobs.

Defined inside templates/tests/:

annotations:
  "helm.sh/hook": test
Run tests with:

helm test <release-name>

✅ Day 21 – Helm with Dependencies (Charts of Charts)
Use Chart.yaml to define dependencies:

dependencies:
  - name: redis
    version: 14.0.0
    repository: https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
Then run:

helm dependency update
It downloads subcharts into charts/ directory.

✅ Day 22 – Helm Best Practices
Follow naming conventions: use fullnameOverride and nameOverride.

Keep templates modular.

Store values.yaml per environment.

Use helm lint to catch syntax errors.

✅ Day 23 – Helm and CI/CD Integration
Helm is easily integrated with CI/CD tools like Jenkins, GitHub Actions, or GitLab CI.

Example GitHub Actions step:

- name: Deploy with Helm
  run: helm upgrade --install myapp ./chart --values values-prod.yaml
✅ Day 24 – Creating Your Own Helm Chart Repository
Use helm package to package your chart.

Generate index.yaml using:

helm repo index . --url <your-host-url>
Host .tgz and index.yaml on GitHub Pages.

Add the repo with:

helm repo add myrepo <url>

🧠 Summary Table
Topic	Key Focus
Helm Hooks	Lifecycle control like pre-install, post-delete, etc.
Upgrade & Rollback	Manage revisions and rollbacks safely
Test Framework	Kubernetes jobs for post-deploy verification
Chart Dependencies	Reuse other charts via Chart.yaml
Best Practices	Clean code, linting, naming conventions
CI/CD Integration	Helm in automated deployment pipelines
Custom Chart Repo	Host your own .tgz charts on GitHub Pages
